to be in Austin chatting with Speaker Bill Clayton
about his reminiscences and recollections of
being a student at Texas A&M.
As we began, first question, why did you go to A&M?
Well,
I have a good friend at Spring Lake, Texas, I was
drafted. Right immediately after building the
camp, I was sent overseas and was shot for the first
big Israel kill. And I wanted to do something about
it. And I was too young to be... I went to volunteer.
I was 17 years old. And they wouldn't let me in. I
believe I was 17. I might have been 16. And so then I
looked around. to see how else I might be able to
accomplish that. And wanting to get into college,
I knew that I had to have some more credits for
wanting my little high school offer. It was a
period of war when there wasn't any good teachers
left, men teachers. A lot of the subject matters,
science and mathematics, advanced math, was just
not there. I enrolled in Texas Tech, or was trying
to enroll in Texas Tech. I was married about a week
before they told me I just wasn't qualified to have
any of these other subjects. So I decided then to
find me a place where I could go and pick up those
last senior subjects that I needed, and it was
Allen Academy in Bryan, Texas. Well, I got quite an
attachment to A&M while I was at Allen Academy.
Now, what year was that? This was in 1946.
So it was just natural that I moved from there to
A&M. And certainly I've never regretted it. So you
enrolled as a freshman in the fall of? No, 1946.
1946. And you were at Allen in 45, 46? Right. High
school was Spring Lake?
Uh-huh. came to enroll as a freshman in the fall of
46. How did you get there? Describe that trip.
Well, I believe on that first occasion my parents
brought me back. But it was a long way to West Texas.
And, you know, of course in them days it was all
Corps, all military.
Once you didn't get a chance to go home except just
one or two times during the semester, I believe
Easter maybe, and then in the fall you got to go to
Thanksgiving and Christmas, and that was about
it. And our mode of transportation in them days was
hitchhiking. Describe Aggie hitchhiking. Well,
we had old Highway 6, which is right out in front of
the campus, in front of the demonstration
building. Aggies would line up there. and they
would take their turn, one behind the other as they
had lined up, and thumbing a ride. And you know,
with the uniforms on in that day and time, and the
war just about to come to a close, everybody
stopped for a uniform to pick them up and carry them
where they were going. And so I remember standing
in that line several times. Do you remember any
Important stories about hitchhiking, good or
bad? Interesting experiences? Yes, I do.
One summer school, on the 4th of July, my roommate
and I decided to see how far we could hitchhike on
the weekend and get back to classes. We took off and
we got to Chicago. And it was an interesting deal.
In Texarkana, we caught a truck going to St. Louis.
It was raining. I mean, we were out there just
getting drenched. And this truck stopped and
picked us up. St. Louis on the edge of Chicago. I
forgot now who we caught, but it was one ride. And of
course, the interesting thing was, when we stayed
one night there in Chicago.
And on the way back, we caught a guy with, at that
time, the latest model Buick. You know, they kind
of would make cars for a while there. And this guy
was, he was an amazing guy. He was talking about
owning an aircraft. We didn't know where it was
blowing or, you know, whether it was a real thing or
what. And, of course, the amazing thing was, too,
that as we just began to realize as we were driving
along, he was about half drunk. And reaching on the
cedar once in a while to fill out the bottle and, you
know, it kind of put the fear in you a little bit. He
had passed the bottle around and we'd partake
because we'd We're so dang scared we didn't know
what not to do. But he kept telling us a story about
he had a mansion in St. Louis with 25 rooms and all
kinds of things like that. Well, lo and behold, he
took us and showed us one in St. Louis. So he was
real. And so we spent a major portion of the night in
St. Louis. Did he identify his profession? You
know, he may have, I have forgotten. Anyway,
we got back on the road, got back to College Station
Monday morning, and missed an 8 o'clock class and
made it 9 o'clock. And that was quite a... Y'all
left? We left on, I believe it was Friday about
noon. Do you remember any negative hitchhiking?
From what experience?
And I attacked a lot, but there's only one
experience that I remember was negative. And the
guy that lived in Olsen, Texas, which is about six
miles from Spring Lake, in fact, I believe it was at
that time,
and we were hitching back home, and we got a ride
somewhere
right like where it was
it was probably uh
before you it was before we got that
and it was a sharp ride and we got him and this guy got
talking about his experience the night before
with a young boy and he just kept on and said you know
what he just went into details and we made him pull
over and stop and we got out but that's the only
experience i ever had that even could have turned
to that all right now hitchhiking from con station
to spring lake what was the normal route uh routes
uh well we went on highway six uh that time c6 before
uh highway uh interstate 20 Highway 6 now cuts off,
I think, at Cisco or Eastland or somewhere there.
But at that time, it went on through Abilene. And
then from Abilene, I think we took 84.
Describe the campus physically. What buildings
were where when you were a freshman? Very little on
the west campus, the dairy. As far as classrooms on
the west campus, there wasn't any. There
was a lot of buildings there then that are not there
now, like Hyatt Hall and Walden and some of those.
There was about 6,000 of us in the Corps. We were in
the new area, we called it at that time, which
really wasn't too old. And you know, it was an
experience that I don't think anybody can forget,
because our freshman class was probably the worst
hazed class that came down the pike in a long time.
And this was just before it closed down. They left
right on the air base. They and Emma took it over.
Some of us were out there for classes. And then some
were on campus. But man, the hazing was something
just unbelievable. Describe that. Well, it would
be nothing at all to be walking to the classroom and
just buckled down because your knees get out
because the morning before or the night before you
had to do sternum and knee bends. Or to stand on your
tiptoes and grab butterflies with razor blades
under your heels. I mean, that kind of stuff. And
the paddle was a well-known weapon for the upper
draftsmen at that time. If a paddle was used, when
and how many licks? Usually it was, I'm trying to
think, it seemed like it was three after a warm-up.
But I have gone to the shower, and I've gone to the
shower many times to soak my shorts on because I've
got a mistake. Now, normally when you were
paddled, you had on your trousers or just your
shorts? Usually just my shorts. And did you have to
do anything bad to get that paddling? You know, I
don't remember, but I can't recall what we would
think was bad to get it. You were living on the
campus or at Bryan Field? I lived on the Bryan
Field. Okay. Describe that. Because that's kind
of special. Well, at that time, as the Air Force
moved out, and then just moved in, and we were in the
same dormitories, you know, with 15, 20, I guess
12, 15 rows of beds on each side, and the head down at
the end of one of the barracks. And about how many
fish were out there? I think the whole freshman
class was out there. Any sophomores? Yeah, we had
our classmen out there. That's where we got our
A's. Okay. We had just the regular officers that,
you know, you have in a company or a battalion,
sophomores, juniors, and seniors. And you were
out there the whole year? Yeah. The whole academic
year. How often did y'all come into the campus? We
came in quite a few times for A lot of military
drills and things like that. Football games?
Yeah. Oh, yeah. Y'all practice? Yes.
And did the faculty live out there? I don't know.
But you had all your classes out there. Yes.
Let's see. You didn't have a fish old lady then,
since you didn't have a roommate. Well, we were all
roommates. That's it? Yeah. So y'all didn't
use that term, fish old lady? Well, we used the term
because it was double bunk. Oh, okay. And the one
that doubled with you was your old lady. Who were
some special friends that you made then that you
recall now? Oh, gosh.
Really, I can't remember that far back. There's
some that I... and they're all dead. Bell
trot,
necktie, just a few of them. Please describe the
chow hall routine, ritual. Well,
it wasn't a ritual. It was...
working in the chow hall was probably the best job
on campus. You could get all the cooks you wanted.
Did you work in the chow hall? I worked in the mess
hall some. And I also worked in the mess hall when we
went to my campus. But, you know, the manner in
which you were seated, the upperclassmen would
serve first. line first and they got everything
passed to them before anybody else started then.
Then I've seen we've had of course the bread
fights. Describe the bread fight. Well it's
basically what we do is somebody would on one of the
tables, two or three tables over, try to take a roll
on an upperclassman that was turned the other
direction. And that usually started that table
throwing back into that table. And the first thing
you know, it looked like a mirage coming across.
And you threw bread and what else? Well,
occasionally we got a little sloppy and throw some
other stuff, but it was mainly bread.
Any, describe a typical day, class day. When did it
begin and what happened when? Go through the whole
day for me. Well, we were always, I forget what time
we had to be up, but we were always in formation
doing military things before we went to class. And
if I'm correct, I believe our classes, some of them
started at 7, some of them started at 8. And they
lasted all through the day, just like we do now. And
at that time, I believe, I don't guess we had any
weekend classes. I was thinking maybe we did, but I
don't believe we did. But you did have Saturday
classes. Yes. Did you all march to class? Yes.
When there was a group going to a certain class,
like a big chemistry lab or something like that,
yes. Did you all fall in for lunch? Yes. And supper.
What about late in the afternoon? What did you all
do late afternoon? Intramurals
and then study. Then at night? Yeah, the study
periods at night. And what time lights out? Ten
o'clock. Did anybody ever try to get up after hours
and move around? They didn't try it, they didn't.
What'd they do? Oh, I know several cases. A couple
of my buddies and I, we'd slip out and go over to the
Little Brazos and go swimming, things like that.
We kind of never did veer towards town because we
thought we might get caught. Occasionally we'd go
across the bridge
and pick up some goodies and come home. Now what was
over across the bridge? It was a wet area of that
particular region at that time. Two or three
liquor stores was about the first place you could
buy liquor. Were any of them famous or infamous by
name? Well we just called it the bridge. It was two
or three of them. Of course you know Before you got
the bridge, if you was going down on the back roads,
one of the famous beer halls would come Uncle Ed's.
Now, where was Uncle Ed's? I don't know the highway
number, but it's like you were going to Dimebox, I
guess, Welbert Road. You're talking about going
south from the main campus? Yeah, from the main
campus. Was Uncle Ed's and Hard Liquor's the same
place? I've heard of them both. I don't think it
was. It could have been. It could have been Ed
Hartnaker. It might have been the name. But you're
right. I've heard of both of
them. Let's see. Your outfit. D. Field, RTOB. What
was special about it, about that outfit? Well, I
thought we had one of the finer CEOs,
a guy by the name of Harty, out of Houston. And we
just had a group of people that kind of gelled
together. The camaraderie was good. Anybody got
in their way, we'd fight for each other. You stayed
with that outfit all through? Stayed with it
till...
I don't know how to say this. It changed
designations from right in about that time. It had
to be changed to old. But no, I didn't... take a
contract. So last year and a half, I was not ready.
But you're in the Corps then for two years. Let's
see. Food nicknames. Cush or dessert.
Thank you. Lord have mercy. Meat.
Butter. milk, tea? Well, we had some pretty god
awful nights. That's all I can remember. They
weren't worth repeating in public.
How did you, how did you dress for class? In a horse.
And what conduct did you think was expected of you
in class?
I hadn't even thought about that.
You were there to listen and learn. Did you go to
sleep? Occasionally you did, because
upperclassmen had to do a darn lot of stuff, and
hazing is so bad that you didn't get a whole lot of
sleep. Frank, you then, as a sophomore, you're on
the main campus? Right. Describe how life was
different then. Not a whole lot different,
because the freshman class was still out at the air
base. a handful of freshmen on campus. Our outfit,
by the way, happened to have a couple of them. And,
uh, let me go back to freshman year first. Oh,
please do. Please do. Uh, Gib Gilchrist was
president of Bayland at that time. And, of course,
he was very high on trying to stop Beijing. And, uh,
when I was I looked at the hippies of the 60s and
their rebellion and how they demonstrated and all
this kind of stuff, you know, I think, man, I'm
never going to part with anything like that. But I
do remember when we were freshmen, we marched on
Gilchrist's house and hung him an ethargy on the
tree. And so I guess you look back, you express
yourself in a lot of ways, but I mean the whole core
of us. What happened when you all got to his house?
All I remember is we hung him and added tea. But I
don't know. I don't know what happened there. I'm
really not certain. Well, what came of that
protest? Did anything change? I don't think so.
Yeah, that was a, yeah, I remember that . All right,
dining hall ritual then, you lived in the new core
area, Sevesa or Duncan? We lived, we were at
Duncan. Duncan. Describe the dining hall ritual
in Duncan. Wasn't much different. It was about the
same as we had out at the base. All right, so you're
in the, you're eating in Duncan then your
sophomore year. And then as a DNC, did you continue
to live on campus your junior, senior year? Oh,
yes. Absolutely. In fact, I lived in the new area.
OK. But you wore a uniform. Yeah. OK. How was life
then as a sophomore? What privileges did you enjoy
as a sophomore? Well, we really didn't enjoy it as
much as you would have if you had a crew of freshmen
in your outfit. It wasn't as bitter as it was, the
hazing wasn't as, at some point, as it was when he
was fresh. And you're talking about a while ago,
getting out after the lights were out and
everything. Many, many a night, I'd suggest
probably every other night at least, maybe more
often, we'd always get up and do drown outs.
Describe a drowned out. Well, a drowned out is
where you go to an upperclassman's room while
they're asleep at night and dump a bucket of water
or whatever else you might have accumulated on
them and run like heck, hope they don't catch you.
And then what kind of retribution was there
normally? Oh, if you got caught, it was Katie Boy
the Dover. Because you got retribution that
didn't last just one day. It usually lasted longer
than that. Now, did you almost always drown out
someone in a higher academic class than you? Yeah,
in a higher class where they, you know, like this
is. Describe for
me some samples of Good Bull of the drown outs,
pranks, jokes.
Well, I can remember one where we put a five gallon
bucket in there. And all the freshmen come by here
and they didn't tell you it was bull. We used that as
a draft out for one of our senior officers one night
that everybody just couldn't get along with. I
mean, there was a lot of fun things like that. Did he
get the message? He got the message.
Any others you can? Well, another prank that we had
pulled,
to
fill a condom up with water and slip it in the bed
with them. And sometimes, for warning, they'd
tumble enough to break out and the water would go
everywhere. Ever any fireworks?
I don't remember. What were the unwritten rules of
student behavior and pranks and jokes, what were
the things that y'all just wouldn't do?
I don't know what much we didn't do. Did anybody
ever have a woman in their room at night? Yes.
Describe your room. in the core area? My freshman
year was hot water. Let's do both. Well, freshman
year, of course, like I indicated, we used a
barracks farm, double bunks on each side of the
barracks. I'd say there were probably 10 barracks
on each row, probably about 20 students in a
barracks. And then we were trained, one place for
everybody.
On the campus, when we were in the dorms, in the core
dorms, you'd have two or sometimes it'd be three
children. But it was an enclosure. It didn't have a
bathroom. It wasn't fancy like the dorms are now.
I've been in some recently and they're just pretty
nice. It was just a concrete floor. No elevators.
Always tires.
I can remember one
occasion in our sophomore year. Somebody had gone
across the river. It was in the afternoon. And
there was four or five of us in the dorm with a doughy
shelf. And had it locked.
And we were having a good time. And, uh, we heard a
knock
on the door. And it was Colonel Borger. They're
coming.
We didn't know it.
I hollered, the ship will slide under us. And
somebody opened the door, and when he walked in,
let me tell you, that sobered the crowd up real
quick.
Let's digress on him. Describe Colonel, then
Colonel Boehner. He was just a tough old Army guy
that
he wanted you to go by the rule, and that was it. No
variation.
probably about,
I'm just trying to visualize my mind, the size of
the man he was. He wasn't that tall, but he was a
well-built, pretty broad fellow. Did you all
respect him? Well, you did in his presence. Yeah,
you know, in later years, too, you begin to realize
he was A-OK. Back in this... core dorm room. What
was in that room? A bunk bed, and were they one on top
of the other or were they separated? No, in ours
there was one on top of each other. And what else was
in there? That was it. No air conditioning,
nothing like that, and the little thin mattress
pads and the hot summer and day in College Station.
You'd sweat that thing through in a night. Where
was the desk? Yeah, there was a It seemed like kind
of a shelf-like thing for a desk, as best I recall.
There wasn't a whole lot of furniture, maybe a
couple chairs. Alright, and then normally when
you came from Spring Lake to A&M, what did you bring
as the year began? About a whole lot.
Just, you know, personal effects as far as a lot of
closed things, you didn't because you'd all go
over the issue of the wheelchair.
We didn't have, none of those kids had televisions
and things like that to bring them days. Did you
even have a radio? I think we might have had a small
radio in our garden, but I'm not sure. Who were some
of the memorable teachers, advisors,
counselors?
Well, I have to say that probably,
what's the old chemistry professor's name?
Herrington. Dean Herrington. He was probably one
of the better teachers I ever had. I flunked
Chemistry 101 my first semester. And I took it then
the second semester under him. And under him, I
loved it. I really was, I really thought he was a
great teacher. What made him a good teacher? I
really don't know, but I mean, he just made you, he
had something or other that made you interested in
what he was saying. He had a way about it. Did he have
a nickname?
He had, I don't remember. What about some of the
other nicknames?
One of my professors,